---
layout: post
title: "texmacs"
---

: TeXmacs: A True "What You See Is What You Get" Typesetting System

I haven't recommended a software I like in a long time, now I recommend a private treasure I use for doing math homework in the US: TeXmacs. I won't be able to write a long explanation of TeXmacs here, but since it's so simple and useful, I don't need to write much. Given that the number of people who know about it is small, while the number of those who don't understand it is large, I'm just advertising it here to pique interest.

TeXmacs' main features are:

- Unlike Lyx and others, it's not a TeX "front-end," but a completely independent, superior system that surpasses TeX in terms of typographical beauty. This is because it uses the same typesetting algorithm as TeX and is reimplemented in C++. It's said that its pagination algorithm is better than TeX's.

- It has true "What You See Is What You Get" (WYSIWYG), surpassing Word (or any word processing software). Word's so-called "WYSIWYG" is not real. The meaning of "WYSIWYG" should be that the content displayed on the screen is identical to the printed version. But can Word do that? When you print a document, you find that it's quite different from what's displayed on the screen, and the screen display is usually rougher. Some TeX front-ends like Lyx, Scientific Workplace, etc., are similar. They can't achieve true WYSIWYG.: Directly draw graphs on the screen document. Completely visualizable tables, formula editing environment. These are much more convenient and efficient than TeX. Be careful, after using TeXmacs for a while, going back to TeX's formula editing method feels like going back to primitive society.

People-friendly key design. For instance, in a mathematical formula environment, pressing any character followed by several TAB keys allows you to consecutively select "topologically similar" characters. For example, if you press @ and then press TAB a few times, you will find that this character changes into various circle-shaped characters. If you press > and then =, a greater-than or equal sign will appear, followed by various variants when you press TAB.

Intuitive yet retains control over underlying structure. For example, the status bar at the bottom right of the window shows the "context" of the current cursor position as "proof eqnarry*(1,1) start", indicating that this is the start of an eqnarry in a proof environment at coordinate (1,1). When you use Ctrl-Backspace, the layer of "environment" closest to the cursor will be deleted. For instance, if the current font is italic, the font will immediately revert to normal after Ctrl-Backspace.

Structured browsing functionality. Pressing Ctrl-PgUp, Ctrl-PgDn allows you to navigate between "similar types" of structures. For example, if you are in a section title, you can quickly browse all section titles. If you are in a mathematical formula, you can quickly browse all mathematical formulas.

Interactive interface with computer algebra systems. Supports various computer algebra systems and interactive software, such as MAXIMA, Octave, ... The mathematical formulas returned by these systems will be displayed as "TeX effect" directly by TeXmacs. Uses Scheme as an embedded language, and can be extended using it. This is a significant advancement compared to TeX's language.: Currently, due to TeX's monopolistic position, and because TeXmacs is made in France, this system is not popular in the US, and many people have not heard of such a thing. Many scholars, due to being influenced by certain erroneous ideas, do not understand the value of this graphical editing software. I hope the Chinese and French people will rise up and surpass the Americans.

To quickly master the basic use of TeXmacs, you can refer to my drawn TeXmacs mind map:

[Note: The Chinese text also contains some idiomatic expressions and cultural references that may not fully translate to English, so the above translation is a rough approximation of the intended meaning.]