---
layout: post
title: "What is Semantics?"
---


Many people ask me how to enter the study of "semantics" after mastering the basics of programming language skills. I will now briefly explain what "semantics" means, and then recommend a beginner's book. The semantics I refer to here is mainly about programming languages, but the semantics in natural language is essentially the same.

The semantics of a program are usually determined by another program, which is called an "interpreter" (interpreter). A program is just a data structure, typically represented as a syntax tree (abstract syntax tree) or instruction sequence. This data structure itself does not have meaning on its own, it is the interpreter that gives it meaning. For the same program, there can be different interpretations, just like the different interpretations of the elements in the picture above, which can reveal different contents (a girl or an old woman).

An interpreter accepts a "program" (program), outputs a "value" (value). Represented graphically, an interpreter looks like an arrow: program ===> value. This so-called "value" can have very broad meaning. It may be an integer, a string, or something more amazing.

An interpreter is not just limited to computers. It is a very broad concept. Some of which you may not yet be aware. To write Python programs, you need a Python interpreter, whose input is Python code, and whose output is a Python data, such as 42 or "foo". A CPU is also an interpreter, whose input is binary-represented machine instructions, and whose output is some electrical signals. The human brain is also an interpreter, whose input is images or sounds, and whose output is the concepts generated by neural elements. If you are familiar with type inference systems (type inference), you will find that the process of type inference is also an interpreter, whose input is a program, and whose output is a "type". Type is also a value, but it is an abstract value. For example, 42 corresponds to the type int, and we say 42 is abstracted as int. "Semantics" is mainly about studying various interpreters. The principle of interpreters is actually quite simple, but the structure is very intricate and subtle. If you start with complex languages, you might never learn it. The best way to begin is by writing a basic lambda calculus interpreter. Lambda calculus only has three elements, yet it can express the complex structures of all programming languages.

There are not many books specifically about semantics, I recommend a book that I find both deep and shallow: "Programming Languages and Lambda Calculi". You only need to read the first half (Part I and II, around 100 pages). This book is good because it starts explaining what recursive definition, what interpretation, what Church-Rosser, and what context (evaluation context) are from very simple boolean expressions (not lambda calculus). Once you understand the semantics of this simple language, you will have enough confidence to learn more. For example, lambda calculus and CEK, SECD abstract machines. After understanding these concepts, you will find that understanding the semantics of all programming languages becomes much easier.