---
layout: post
title: "I why did I leave Cornell"
---


Many people know that I studied for my Ph.D. at Cornell, but two years later I transferred to Indiana University. Everyone, including people at Indiana, found it strange that someone would leave Cornell, a school known as an "elite" university. I had written about my experiences at Cornell before, such as students rushing to take notes in class and being overwhelmed with homework. These were real situations, so I saw no need to sugarcoat my "alma mater."

After leaving Cornell, I saw someone start a "Cornell Haters Club" on Facebook. One person wrote:

"Cornell promises to teach you how to swim, but pushes you into the pool and lets you struggle. When you're about to reach the shore, it throws a big rock at your head, then waits for you to reach the shore again and hits you with a rake. Cornell keeps doing this until you die, but it still waits for you to swim to the shore...."

This is a very vivid summary of my two years at Cornell. Now, let's see what I learned at Indiana and what Cornell taught me. It's like night and day. Dan Friedman and R. Kent Dybvig's education is truly a precious gift, not a heavy burden as Albert Einstein said. They taught me things that made me no longer care about a Ph.D. from any "elite" university, be it Cornell, Stanford, Berkeley, MIT, or Harvard, ...lso called "cows schools," I suppose this is how it goes. Students regard them as a means to becoming a "cows school." You struggle to get in, and I let you in. But I don't teach you, I make you struggle to do homework. If you manage to do it, I give you an absurd exam. If you pass all these tests, I give you a degree. You receive this "honor," so naturally you say "my school is great." You dare not say it's not great, for that would mean you're not great yourself. Therefore, such schools don't need to do anything, you learn and graduate all on your own, but eventually you attribute all the merit to the school. There are businesses like this in the world.

Once, a friend of mine from Cornell acted like a teacher whenever I spoke about Cornell, scolding me like a parent would scold a child. A "cows school" is a contagious disease, the seeds of which are planted before you even enter, and once you're in, it begins to spread. Years after graduation, it still lingers with you.