---
layout: post
title: "braid"
---

I haven't played a game for a very long time (excluding games like Angry Birds to pass the time). My last real game console was PlayStation 1. On that, the last game I truly enjoyed was Metal Gear Solid (1).

I used to be a gaming addict, but after entering computer science studies, I began to lose interest in games. I was disappointed every time I played one, no matter how classic others claimed it to be. I clearly knew how the game designers were trying to "pull one over on me," how they were trying to waste my time.

Similarly, others found enjoyment in novels and films that I often figured out within the first few minutes, knowing how the scriptwriters were fabricating and losing my interest. So I rarely went to the cinema to watch the latest films, preferring instead to watch some old movies online. I seem to only enjoy things that leave me "baffled."

Braid is such a game that leaves me baffled.1. This is a recommendation from a colleague. I had completely given up on video games and, unusually, bought it from the App Store as a result. After playing it, I found it to be really great, with a kind of "mind blowing" feeling. I even spent two whole days on it, neglecting sleep and food, and managed to clear it.

2. The core structure of Braid is similar to that of the most ancient "Super Mario." A little man who can run and jump. Some small monsters running around. You can jump up to step on them.

3. The final goal is to collect all the puzzles and combine them into a picture. Combining the pictures is an easy task. The game's difficulty lies in obtaining these puzzles. They may be hung up high or behind doors.

4. But what's noteworthy about this game is that it provides you with several unique "superpowers," and integrates them seamlessly with the puzzles.

5. You have three superpowers:
- Time manipulation: You can rewind time or fast-forward it.
- Gravity manipulation: You can reverse gravity.
- Resizing: You can make yourself smaller or larger.: Reversing Time Ability

Press Shift key at any moment, the game's time will be reversed, undoing all previous actions. Even if you die, you can revive. Dead monsters will also revive. However, some puzzles are still quite challenging.

Notably, during time reversal, the screen remains smooth and unblemished, even explosive scenes will "shrink." More impressively, the game's background music also reverses. If you press "up," "down" keys during time reversal, you can adjust the speed of rewinding and fast-forwarding. Consequently, the scene appears like a rewinding or fast-forwarding video.

Ability to Generate "Parallel Realities"

In certain sections, you can create "parallel realities." Perform an action, then press Shift key to reverse time. Upon stopping the reversal, your shadow starts "redoing" the previous "history." At this point, you can do things differently. It's as if there are two worlds, one new and one old, merging from the "fork in history." You must master time to cooperate with the shadow, as the shadow's actions are not under your "on-site control," it only repeats your undo's history.

### The Time-Bending Ring

In certain sections, you will have the opportunity to use a magical ring. Place this ring on the ground and it will form a "twist" in the time sphere around it in the local ball-shaped space. This is similar to the principle of a black hole. The closer you are to the ring's position, the slower time flows. Conversely, when you are far away, time gradually returns to normal. The clever use of the ring is key to solving these puzzles.

Moreover, the ring's special ability is perfectly in sync with the music. When you are near the ring, the background music will display an appropriate degree of distortion. It's a little like the feeling of a cassette tape.

After solving all the puzzles, I reflected on why I enjoyed Braid. Perhaps it's because it fits the excellent design of a game with a handful of simple rules that can be combined to create countless variations. You only have three superpowers, but how to use and "combine" these superpowers to become the key to solving puzzles is the question. Some puzzles are quite challenging, making you wish for a fourth superpower or some other "treasure" to appear. But they don't exist. You can only achieve your goal by using those three abilities cleverly, attentively observing, and thinking carefully. After solving a difficult puzzle, you usually slap your forehead: Wow, I could have thought of that from the start!