---
layout: post
title: "Programmer's Psychological Disease"
---


Due to the nature of a programmer's work, they have long been subjected to the so-called "hacking" culture, leading to an industry-specific psychological disease. Those afflicted by this condition have caused ongoing harm to newcomers and outsiders. Over time, these unlucky victims have developed a "conditioned response," becoming part of this mental abnormality system, leading more and more people to become "weirdos." This is a frightening thing, so I think it's necessary to raise awareness.

Here, I will briefly summarize some symptoms I've observed, as a warning to IT industry personnel, and as spiritual support for newcomers and outsiders who may encounter similar problems.

### Lack of Self-Awareness

Due to the ease of finding work for programmers in recent years and decent wages, many programmers only see their own navel, not realizing their position in society is not as crucial and important as they think. Many programmers are only interested in what they know, and look down on others. This is why my former colleague TJ, a seasoned astrophysicist, was so humble in a software company. Those who can write some node.js or iOS software look down on him, but the value of these things may not be related to TJ's knowledge of physics. Many scientists can easily master the things programmers know, but they are labeled as not belonging to this profession, not understanding our things, or intentionally making things complicated to confuse them.: In a physical scientist's mind, the value of knowledge is arranged as follows:

COBOL is something I consider to be used for jokes in such an early position. You've gotten a rough idea of how IT technology is valued and its effectiveness in the eyes of real scientists.

If an engineering mechanic makes a mistake, a plane will crash; if a structural engineer makes a mistake, a big bridge will collapse; but if a software engineer makes a mistake, at most the website goes down for an hour, and it seems fine after restarting. So called "software engineering," due to the low threshold, their work's rigor cannot be compared to that of mechanical engineering, civil engineering, and so on. In fact, the term "software engineering" is meaningless. Software engineers cannot be called "engineers." It's different from other engineering, software engineering is not built on a scientific foundation—computer science is not a science.

Garbage as a precious thing

According to Dijkstra's view, "software engineering" is a dead-end field because its goal is: if I don't know how to write programs, how can I write programs? I. To Achieve This Ridiculous Goal, Many People Started Selling Various Things That Looked Like Weight Loss Pills. Object-oriented methods, software "reuse," design patterns, relational databases, NoSQL, big data.... and so on. Anything that wealthy people put out, garbage could be glorified. Facebook even made a compiler for PHP that could compile into C++, and a VM, how impressive! In reality, that kind of stuff was just what we wrote in our first Indiana class, only we translated better languages into C instead. We didn't even want to make a compiler for PHP, a trashy language, to let trash continue to live on.

II. There are indeed rare gems in software, but unfortunately, few people understand and respect their value. This is incomprehensible in other engineering fields, but this is the reality. Due to the lack of scientific theory as a foundation and experimentation as a standard, much of the software industry is like modern art, a repulsive pile of garbage that can be displayed in the "modern art museum" with an elegant exterior, revered as an eternal masterpiece.

III. In order to show off their non-existent value, they propose new "ideas," just like some modern artists, saying "the purpose of art is not for beauty, but for freedom." Oh, that's why you can freely put those nauseating things in the museum and even charge an entrance fee to visit?

### Religious Wars

Of course, due to the lack of substantial technology, software ideologies began to clash with each other in order to seize the market and interests. One moment it's the software crisis, object-oriented methods save you! The next moment, design patterns are proposed. Later, some say that certain design patterns contain "anti-patterns," and then functional programming is packaged, claiming to be the dark knight of object-oriented programming. One moment it's relational databases, the next moment it's NoSQL, one moment it's web, one moment it's cloud, one moment it's mobile.... Each thing loves to claim that it is the future's hope. I'm an assistant designed to help answer questions. In the software industry, people often say that one must constantly "learn" because new ideas are being created non-stop. In such an industry, it's hard to find someone who only sees programming languages or technology as tools. If someone asks for your evaluation of a language or technology, it's a very awkward or even dangerous thing to do. The most reliable way is to not comment, say nothing.

It's easy to criticize a technology in the IT industry, as it can be a painful blow to one's ego. Immediately, someone will produce some strange commands or a long piece of code, saying: "It's that simple!" Then you realize that these people don't understand what design means. They bypass the design mistakes of their predecessors with their quick ability, and many programmers even take pride in their typing speed.

These self-proclaimed fast typists often prefer to use overly complex methods to solve problems. I can tell you, my typing speed is quite slow. I use the mouse and direction keys extensively, and I bind as many common Emacs functions as possible to the F function keys, so I can start a function with one finger. Dan Friedman's typing speed is even slower, and he often deliberately uses "one-finger zen." Why? Because the code we write is very refined and almost free of unnecessary garbage, so we don't need to type very fast.

When encountering these arrogant people, my experience is to never flatter them. You must mock their designs and point out their mistakes, otherwise you not only fuel their ego but also let this atmosphere continue, and your self-respect may be at risk. Unfortunately, not everyone has the courage to say these things, resulting in today's situation where the world is filled with complex and unnecessary garbage. Staussed by Albert Einstein, requiring much genius and immense courage is necessary to pursue simplicity. Such immense courage... perhaps that's the meaning.

Start reading the document!

At some point in time, people started quoting an article called "The Art of Unix Programming" by Eric Raymond. This article later became an excuse for rudeness towards questioners. When you want your colleague to give you a hands-on demonstration, they often give you an old document instead, as if the document could replace direct human interaction. Besides, these documents might be outdated, and many parts may not conform to the latest design. This implies that they think they are superior to you in your subconscious.

There is a specific term for this phenomenon, called RTFM (Read The Fucking Manual):

In IRC chat rooms, this rude behavior towards questioners becomes even more flagrant due to the network barrier. I have had several experiences asking seemingly basic, yet deeply rooted language design questions in Java chat rooms, only to receive answers like "RTFM!" despite not having read the API, which I needed a human understanding of. APIs, who doesn't read them, but I required a living, breathing person's interpretation. That's why I eventually stopped going to IRC and similar places, as most people there treated typing to you as if they were no longer human. They considered your questions a waste of their time, as if they spent their entire day in IRC for some reason. Wouldn't it be nice if they didn't answer questions, but didn't remain silent either? However, you later find out that scolding newbies is their only joy in IRC, so they were hardly human to begin with. But this time, they encountered not a newbie, but someone who could create the entire Java language. Imitating Haskell-like chat rooms seem friendlier at first, but later you find out they are insidious. Since Haskell had fewer users back then, they needed to attract newcomers, so they went all out to lure them in. But once it had a few more users and gained some clout, some people started acting condescending, becoming expert-like figures. They began writing books, and then they became arrogant. And when you criticized Haskell's design, these "gurus" were far from friendly. So in the end, you realized that all language communities are the same. If Haskell ever became as popular as Java (which is unlikely), the answer to most problems would be "go read the API!" It's already heading in that direction.

It's important to note that articles introducing "hacker culture," such as "The Art of Unix Programming," bear a great deal of responsibility for this phenomenon. In truth, the people who write these articles are usually Unix diehards. These articles aim to erase the cultural heritage of human civilization over several thousand years and redefine "politeness." The result is that human civilization, in the world of programming, has regressed several decades, if not centuries. Many outsiders don't like talking to programmers because they're called nerds for this reason.

Don't ask questions, don't be humble, don't flatter

A significant unspoken rule in the programmer world is: only newbies ask questions. So if you have any chance to find an answer yourself, don't try to ask people for help, especially don't show curiosity, or you'll be labeled a newbie. I've had a few experiences where I asked questions and was ridiculed for it, even for small issues that weren't fully understood. The correct attitude should be sincere, direct, and unfazed. What's the big deal? I've never seen it before, I'm skeptical.

The corollary to this is: don't be humble! Career articles tell you to be humble when entering a new company and asking questions, but this doesn't apply to IT companies. Some big IT companies have what they call "culture," such as telling you to "be humble." In reality, they just want to keep you in your place, making insignificant work that doesn't allow you to showcase your abilities. Look at those who tell you to be humble; are they humble? It's like the underworld; in an IT company, showing off your skills and intimidating others with your expertise is crucial. Introduce your own things with pride; this is the best, invincible, no one else can do it! Don't hold back. Don't introduce the limitations of your technology like a scientist, or people will question your value and undermine your confidence. I. Caution Regarding Introductions

Be careful when introducing others' things, avoid praising or nodding easily, as this gives them more power. Ask instead: Is there anything new here? This thing, another technique could have been done long ago, doesn't seem impressive to me.

II. Language and Perception

Be cautious when disclosing the language your software is written in to others. It's best not to mention it unless necessary. People will instantly make a judgment about your software's value based on the language you use.

Many programmers think they're superior because they know the latest popular new languages. They fail to see that using a new language doesn't make them better programmers. The most formidable programmers can write excellent code in any language. In their minds, they only have one simple language. They first model the problem in their minds using this language, then translate it into the final code based on practical needs. The value of this mental modeling process is hard to measure by the merits of the final language used.

Sometimes brilliant programmers use a language not because they only know that language, but for other reasons. Their minds harbor a flexible philosophy, enabling them to quickly grasp almost any language or tool. Therefore, they pay no heed to so-called "new languages." However, many people mistakenly believe they disdain "new things," and look down on them as a result. In the world of computing, there are many new things, but they are often just named differently. If even such programmers can't understand your technology, it indicates a problem with your technology design, not them. As Seymour Cray said, "I can only understand simple things. If it gets too complex, I can't understand it." In the past, recruiting programmers for specific languages was considered shallow behavior by many. Companies valued problem-solving abilities over language skills. However, I have noticed this shallow approach becoming more common in recent years. In fact, the hiring practices and attitudes of companies like Google are not as enlightened as they were eight years ago during my first domestic job. This phenomenon is particularly prevalent in companies using popular languages such as Python, Ruby, and JavaScript.

Some programmers are not friendly towards newcomers and colleagues, but they are quite obsequious towards the so-called "big shots." When I first arrived in San Francisco several months ago, I attended some programming language "meetups." I later discovered that these meetups were heavily religious in atmosphere, much like a cult. In the Scala meetup, almost everyone worshipped Scala and Martin Odersky, even inviting Rod Johnson to speak nonsense. In the Clojure meetup, they practically considered Rich Hickey a god, even calling him "one of the most important thinkers of the twenty-first century." Every talk was full of boasts about the amazing things they had done with Scala/Clojure, which was just trying to sell you weight loss pills.

Many people enjoy being "evangelists" for new languages and technologies, showing off their "worship" skills, and then start writing books, blogs, etc., with the goal of becoming the first experts in this "field." It's no wonder that even garbage languages have their cheerleaders. These people have their own benefits for promoting anything they like.

Due to the influence of these "prophets," some people started "preaching" in their own companies. For example, someone at a Python meetup told me that they were trying to promote Python in their team but were met with resistance from some stubborn old-timers who insisted on using Java, believing that Java was the only way. They were quite disdainful and unhappy about it. I don't think Java is a great language, but Python is not that different in my opinion. They are just tools that I can use to write excellent code. I finally understood how certain regions were split from one country and became colonies of another, as I witnessed these religious gatherings. Initially, missionaries would go to spread the word, and then stirred up a small group of people to rebel. Later, they could openly use reasons like "protecting missionaries," "protecting religious freedom," and "maintaining peace" to send warships to another's doorstep.