---
layout: post
title: "The importance of design"
---


I once wrote an article about design issues, but due to its unremarkable title, many people may not have paid attention. However, I believe it's necessary to bring up the content again now, as design holds a crucial position in my mind, yet is often disregarded by computer scientists and programmers.

I consider myself not only a computer scientist and programmer, but also a designer. I design not only programming languages, but also many other things. My designs are often simpler and more user-friendly than others', and I can easily spot problems in other people's designs. My code is not only easy for me to understand, but also for others. I've had to fix bugs in others' code, but couldn't make sense of it. In such cases, my solution was to rewrite from scratch. The code I wrote afterwards not only had no bugs, but was much simpler.

Many people have design issues in their own work, making it overly complex and difficult to use, then blaming the user for the problem. An example is the severe traffic accident mentioned in a previous article, which was actually a design issue, but was blamed on "human error" by many. Such life-threatening situations are hard to get people to focus on design, let alone the annoying aspects of the software industry. Some people write overly complex code with numerous bugs, yet they believe they can evaluate others' intelligence, considering themselves experts, and those who don't understand their code are "idiots".

Many programmers consciously distinguish themselves from "users", as if programmers should be superior, unable to judge by user standards. So they believe programmers should use difficult tools, operating systems, programming languages, editors, ... They think that if you pursue "usability" or "intuitiveness" in something, your intelligence is questionable. If you say something is too complex, and another thing is simpler, they'll tell you: "Experts use this, you use that for beginners." These people don't understand that programmers are also users, and they are the users of their own code, using their functions every time they call them. However, the disdainful attitude towards users has led to an industry-wide situation where design is overly complex, and complexity is glorified. frequently, people boast about the number of lines of code in their projects, as if the number of lines is a standard for software quality, with more lines indicating better quality. However, the truth is exactly the opposite. As the author of "To Kill a Mockingbird" said, "A designer knows he has achieved it when he can not add anything more or remove anything, and that's the essence of good design."

If you, like me, care about design but find yourself surrounded by people who boast about understanding complex things and dismiss the easy as for beginners, then you need a friend. Books are the best friends of mankind because their authors can transcend time and space limitations to provide you with the support and encouragement you need. This is how I felt when I read "The Design of Everyday Things" (DOET), published in 1988. I felt understood! It's interesting that its author, Don Norman, was once an Apple Fellow and also wrote the foreword to "The Unix-Haters Handbook."

DOET not only includes and supports the ideas in my blog post "The Essence of Hacker Culture" and the basic principles in "Programming Languages and..." but also offers more refined solutions than "What is 'User-Friendly'?"

I believe this should be a must-read book for every programmer. Why should every programmer read it? Because, although this book is a must-read for design professionals, computers and programming languages and tools are, in fact, the "disaster areas" where the author points out the lack of design thinking. After reading it, you will find that many so-called "human errors" are actually caused by the unreasonable design of tools. A well-designed tool should require very little documentation, if any. This book will provide you with principles and inspiration for improving everything. You will regain your humanity.

It's worth noting that, although Don Norman was once an Apple Fellow, I believe there is still a gap between the humanization degree of Apple product design and Norman's thought level. After reading this book, I immediately found some design issues with the iPhone. if you're like me and don't want to use your eyes to read books, you can buy an audiobook from Audible instead.