---
layout: post
title: "Gratuity and Chinese Dignity"
---


Gratuity, an awkward topic, is usually the first unfamiliar cultural phenomenon for Chinese people when they come to America. In China, tipping is not required for dining or getting a haircut. However, in America, tipping seems to be a necessary thing in the service industry. In American restaurants, people usually give at least 15% tip to the waiters.

Newcomers to America often try to save money by being stingy with tips. Some people go to restaurants and, regardless of how attentive or polite the service is, only pay less than 15%, or even below 10%, and leave feeling guilty and sneaky afterwards.

Later, they found out that being stingy with tips harms the image of Chinese people in American society. Therefore, many people became more generous. Some people go to restaurants and give 20% or more tips, even if the service is not respectful or the attitude is bad. Unbeknownst to them, giving too much tip or a tip proportion larger than the service quality not only harms Chinese people's dignity and image, but also poses a threat to society. Below, I will express my own views.

In theory, the custom of tipping is a historical legacy in American society. Restaurants hire servers and pay them extremely low wages, forcing them to rely on customers' tips to make a living. The restaurants should have given the servers adequate wages but didn't, and eventually, this burden was passed on to the customers. Not tipping feels like a moral obligation, and this distorted logic. The tipping custom makes American servers greedy and superficial. The server's attitude often depends on "what they think" you will give as a tip after you finish eating, even if you usually give large tips. The uncertain guessing relationship between the customer and the server is as uncomfortable as the negotiation of who pays the bill when Chinese people finish eating. In some aspects of social civilization, the UK and other European countries are more advanced, and they hardly give tips, and tips are seen as an insult to service personnel (their wages are not low). Therefore, just like Americans still use outdated British units (miles, inches, pounds, ounces, Fahrenheit...), tips are not a "noble" social phenomenon. On the contrary, this is a sign of backward social institutions and poor social welfare, as well as a severe income gap. As a person coming from a more advanced civilization, paying tips is actually just to show kindness, to care for the service workers at the bottom of American society. It's not just in restaurants, many fast food and coffee shops in the US have a tip jar on the cash register, making it look like begging on the street. Many British people in the US do not pay tips, and even strongly dislike this, possibly for this reason.

Giving large tips in the US can sometimes be a showy or flaunting behavior. For example, some athletes leave huge tips in restaurants, take photos of the receipt, and then widely publicize it on the network. Unbeknownst to them, this is a ridiculous and disgraceful behavior in the eyes of refined people.

The principle here should be that the tip ratio should match the quality of the received service. A serviceman with a bad attitude should not continue to work in that position, let alone receive 15% or more tips. If you don't care about the service and give the same tip, you are actually condoning these unsuitable people to continue to give bad attitudes to customers, and this is also unfair to those polite and attentive service personnel. Over time, those who show a friendly attitude to customers will become fewer and fewer.

Moreover, if you give a rude or even bad-tempered service employee 15% or more tips, you are actually damaging your own social dignity. Because deep down in your heart, you think, "I don't want to anger the server," "I don't want to have a feeling of doing wrong," "I don't want to bring shame to the Chinese people".... These are humiliating thoughts. Americans going to China buy counterfeit branded clothing and haggle over prices. The Chinese people like to show off their "understanding of rules" and wealth in foreign countries. This is a sign of self-deprecation. Do you think the server respects you because you give them a high tip? They're laughing at you behind your back!

I wrote these things to correct some psychological attitudes in American-Chinese people. One day I went to a Chinese restaurant with a friend to eat, and the server's attitude was really bad, and the etiquette was rough. When it was time to pay, I put my credit card in the dish, and the server came over and said impolitely, "I only accept cash." After he left, I smiled and put 22 dollars in the dish. I didn't care about the two dollars. Giving a 10% tip was a sign of a poor review in my mind. But my friend was nervous and said, "You gave too little! People will come after you to ask for tips later..."1. From this, you can see the difference in dignity and social status between you and your friend. In my mind, I upheld my (and China's) dignity, mildly scolded some attitude-poor service staff, and did a just deed. However, in your friend's mind, I might just be a petty person. I don't care what others think :-)

In summary:

1. The prevalence of tipping in the US stems from outdated social relations and severe income inequality. China and the UK have few places where tipping is required, reflecting the social system's progress in certain aspects. Therefore, there's no need to be overly concerned about tipping in US restaurants or use it as a yardstick to judge others.

2. Tipping should be a form of generosity (unfortunate fact), something given or not given at will. Being happy, one can give more; being unhappy, one can give less. There's no need to be surprised by how much or how little tip was given.

3. No one has the right to demand a tip from customers or directly add it to the bill (British people would publicly express contempt for such behavior, and Chinese people should also show some attitude). 1. Based on famous Emily Post Etiquette, tips for waiters in American restaurants are generally 15-20% of the pre-tax amount. Many people calculate the tip as the post-tax total amount, which is incorrect, as tax goes to the government and not the restaurant's expense.

2. For poor-service restaurants, appropriate tip reduction to around 10% or even none is suggested. For 2 dollars tip, or simply no tip.

3. Regarding tip jars at fast food counters or coffee shops, no need to put money in. I think putting money in is an insult to the staff. However, if I pay in cash, I usually put the change coins back in, as I don't like carrying coins around.