---
layout: post
title: "Alluded to as 'Human Errors'"
---


Yesterday was a sad day. In the 24-hour period, Caltrain, the main commuting transportation tool in the San Francisco Bay Area, had three accidents resulting in three fatalities. One accident occurred in Menlo Park, where a train was stuck on the tracks due to being blocked by the cars in front and behind it, and was eventually hit by an oncoming train. The driver was rescued by the fire department from the wreckage but died in the hospital shortly after. (News video)

I am saddened by the loss of life, but what makes me even sadder is that every time such incidents occur, there are always people who blame it on "human error." For instance, on Twitter, someone said that this accident was the fault of the deceased for not following traffic rules and therefore deserved to die with their car on the tracks.

Was it really because she didn't follow traffic rules? Would anyone really choose to stop their car on the tracks and wait to die? Maybe the rules were impossible to follow or were designed to make it easy to "violate" them?

First and foremost, rules must be clear, practical, and understandable to be considered rules. but look at the instructions at the railway crossing: "Do not stop on tracks (DO NOT STOP ON TRACKS)", "Keep clear (KEEP CLEAR)". I don't want to stop on the tracks either, but I just started onto the tracks and the car in front of me stopped. What should I do then? Moreover, what does clear mean? Do I have to wait until the intersection is completely empty before I can enter? If there are cars in the intersection, but they are all traveling at 30 miles per hour, should I still stop? If the car in front of me is traveling slower than 5 miles per hour, should I still stop? If the car in front of me seems to be going fast, but then slows down as soon as I enter the intersection, what should I do?

If I cannot follow the "Do not stop on tracks" instruction, and I don't even understand what "clear" means, then what are we calling "traffic rules" here? Since the rules are unclear, how can we blame others for not following them? I want to have how much foresight to guess whether the car in front of me will definitely stop on the tracks when I am starting to drive onto them? Maybe you have already figured it out, this is not the fault of the driver, it is at most a "judgment error". Every person has the possibility of making a judgment error in such a ambiguous situation, because you cannot know how the car in front of you will move. Several drivers interviewed by the reporter at the scene said: "You have to be extremely careful when passing that intersection, because you don't know how the car in front of you will behave."

If you look closely at the satellite image, you will find that the road in front of the railway is narrow, and there is a red light not far away. If this red light turns red, then all the cars on the road up to the railway may be stopped. If you are familiar with the roads in the Bay Area, you will know that the red light on that road often takes a long time. That means there may be many cars waiting for the red light all the way to the railway! if you pay closer attention, using Google Map's street view to examine that intersection closely, you will find that the "KEEP CLEAR" markings on the ground are actually meant to provide a clear path for vehicles stuck on the rail tracks. If the following vehicles do not obey the KEEP CLEAR instructions, they will obstruct the retreat route for the trains on the tracks. So, it's not the trains on the tracks that are waiting to die, but rather the disobedient vehicles that have forced them onto a dead-end. However, as I mentioned earlier, adhering to KEEP CLEAR instructions is a tricky matter. The following vehicles may believe you can pass, so they follow closely. Therefore, you died, you cannot blame the train, cannot blame yourself, cannot blame the preceding vehicle, and cannot blame the following vehicle! Who can you blame then? Only the design of the intersection!

This traffic rule at railroad crossings has another fatal characteristic: the consequences are not immediately apparent, and people do not keenly feel the results of their errors are fatal. People generally do not run red lights because it is obvious that if you do not stop at a red light, you will be hit by a vehicle coming from the opposite direction. However, violating these railroad crossing rules, the consequences are not immediate, and there may be nothing, or it may take a few minutes before anything happens, by which time it is too late to escape. This is like putting a frog in cold water and slowly heating it up. The frog will not jump out immediately, but will die in the water. As you slowly approach the railroad crossing, you find that the preceding train is not moving (because the preceding intersection has turned red), and the following train is approaching. After a while, the crossing gates come down, and the train comes... Are you setting a trap to capture wild animals?

The ease with which such mistakes can occur (even if not your own) is it worth sacrificing a life for? According to this logic, I could bury landmines on the street and put up signs saying "Minefield: Do Not Tread!" If you step on it, I can blame you for not following the rules, and you die!

Looking back at history, you will find that Caltrain almost every month hits at least one car. This accident was not an accident, it had deeper reasons. Last month, I rode on a Caltrain that was delayed for hours due to a car hitting the preceding train. At that time, I saw someone blamed the driver of the car on Twitter, saying he was reckless for stopping on the tracks. At that time, I warned @Caltrain on Twitter, suggesting that they carefully analyze the design of this intersection, as there may be a problem. No one responded to me. This time, three lives were lost, and the design issues of the intersection finally received attention.

A major accident may awaken people a little to reason and recognize that so-called "human error" is often design error. In this case, the intersection design was irrational. Once you mistakenly drive into it, you may find yourself with no escape route, resulting in a collision between train and human. However, many design errors in everyday life that lead to "human error" are not fatal, more like a slow-acting poison. These seemingly irrelevant design errors are easily overlooked and lurk around us. In my industry, there are numerous such design flaws in the software field. In my opinion, the entire software industry is built on a mountain of design mistakes. Being a programmer is so difficult and laborious mainly because software systems accumulate numerous design mistakes, requiring us to do a great deal of work to compensate or bypass. For instance, Unix/Linux operating systems represent a major design flaw. The Unix system's command line, system API, various tools, editors, and programming languages (C, C++, etc.) were designed poorly. Many tools seem deliberately designed to be cryptic and difficult to use, requiring extensive time to learn and prone to errors. Once an error occurs, it's difficult to identify and correct.

However, most programmers are unaware of these design flaws or hesitant to speak up about them. Instead, they flaunt their memorization of these odd and complex rules. This has led to a phenomenon in the software industry known as "the emperor's new clothes" - no one dares to criticize the design of these tools, for fear of being perceived as complaining, inexperienced, or incompetent. It's like not daring to say that the emperor isn't wearing clothes, lest one be considered a fool or unfit for the job.

Unix system allies and their successors (Linux, C language, Go language), have effectively established a monopoly. They scoff at those who criticize their design, labeling them as failures. Ironically, some "users" have higher levels than the designers of these tools. Over time, they have silenced the masses, making people believe that difficult-to-use things are good.

I have a deep understanding of one such example: Git version control tool. Some people take this seriously and pride themselves on memorizing some bizarre Git commands (like git rebase, git submodule, etc.). It seems that knowing these commands makes them some kind of expert, and they look down upon those who don't understand them. As a programmer more brilliant than Git's creator, I find that I can never remember those commands. In my opinion, these commands are cryptic and likely the result of poor design. If something is designed well, I, with my abilities, would not be unable to understand it. But Linus Torvalds' reputation is so large and influential that who would dare say, "I just can't use your broken gadget! How dare you?"