---
layout: post
title: "other people's bugs"
---


In the software industry, it is common to see companies managing one person to fix another person's code bugs. Sometimes a person writes a piece of code and discards it without care, and then the company makes another engineer come to fix it. I want to tell you that this method will fail.

Firstly, having one person fix another person's bugs disrespects the engineering skills of individuals. Over time, this will lower the working enthusiasm of engineers and lead to losing valuable employees. Code is a work of art created by people, and its quality reflects a person's character and dignity. If person A wrote the code and doesn't want to fix the bugs in it, it means A considers his code as garbage and beyond salvage. If person B comes to fix A's code bugs, it's like B cleaning up someone else's trash. Needless to say, B's position in the company and the respect he receives would be questionable.

Secondly, having one person fix another person's bugs is an inefficient way of working. Every person has their coding style and techniques, and the code contains the thought process of an individual. It's hard for people to understand each other's thoughts without explanation, regardless of their programming skills. If you can't understand another person's code, you can't evaluate their programming abilities. Therefore, having one person fix another person's bugs, no matter how brilliant their technology is, will result in lower efficiency. In some cases, the more skilled the person, the lower their efficiency in fixing someone else's bugs, as they can't understand how such poor code was written in the first place and would rather start from scratch.

When I was a teaching assistant for programming courses in college, I found that if a student's code had issues, it was usually impossible to help them fix it easily. Although my skills were far superior to theirs, I often couldn't make sense of their code or even bring myself to look at it, let alone fix the bugs. As mentioned earlier, some people write code without knowing what they're doing and produce a heap of garbage. Looking at such code feels like dealing with feces. For such code, you can only tell them it's incorrect and suggest they change it or rewrite it. You might be able to provide general directions and ideas, but getting into specific details is impossible, and it's not your responsibility. My professor advised me to approach it this way: if the code doesn't run, just put a cross on it and don't explain or analyze it. Let them fix their program themselves, or if absolutely necessary, come to office hours and explain their thought process to you. if you understand what I mean, starting from today, take responsibility for your own code, stop letting others fix your bugs, stop fixing others' bugs. If someone leaves the company, someone must fix the bugs they left behind. So be very careful with your words. You must clearly state the special reasons why you need help, emphasize that it's not their fault, it shouldn't have been their responsibility in the first place, but since someone left and there's no other choice, sincerely apologize for such occurrences. Only then, programmers will willingly fix bugs for others in such special situations.