---
layout: post
title: "Accent"
---

I currently live in an English-speaking country, but my way of using and attitude towards English is different from many people. I don't believe speaking English "properly" is a good thing. People who speak English too properly or try to speak properly in Chinese context often give me an odd feeling. Some people may look fine at first glance, but after a few sentences, I lose interest. Most of the time, this happens because the person's language reveals their inner insecurity.

Firstly, I believe that Chinese people and Chinese people communicating with each other, no matter where they are, should try to use Chinese as much as possible. This is just like people from any other country communicating with each other, they should use their own language. Unless certain words and terms cannot be translated well, or there are foreign friends involved, in which case English can be used to accommodate foreigners.

If you are not a native American-born Chinese, speaking very "proper" American English does not necessarily gain people's favor. I think Chinese people speaking English should have some accent, just like the French, Germans, Japanese, Russians, and so on, who all have their own unique accents when speaking English. Having a certain accent, pronouncing words "improperly," is actually a sign of self-respect and confidence, indicating that you know your worth and are not trying to impress others by imitating American English. Chinese people using American slang or texting with "lol" and other abbreviations may appear to be "blending in," but it is actually a sign of insecurity. Some people like to imitate the exaggerated tone of the Friends TV show, especially Joey's tone, but it is annoying.

I myself speak English without deliberately emphasizing the "er sound." I think the rolled "r" sound in American English is not pleasant to the ear, and flattening the tongue a bit, approaching British pronunciation, is much better. However, I also don't deliberately imitate "British English," as imitating any standard pronunciation will make you seem affected and pretentious. From a young age, I have always eliminated sounds I find unpleasant. So, new acquaintances are often surprised by me, as I don't speak any particular dialect or standard Mandarin. In general, I believe it's a sign of insecurity among Chinese people when they use English with an authentic American accent. I like what Jay Chou said: "I'm Chinese, so my English isn't good!" I hope every Chinese person has this attitude.