---
layout: post
title: "About Git's Etiquette"
---


(The following content was originally a section of "How to Respect a Programmer," but due to the disrespectful behavior towards programmers caused by Git's usage, this section is now being presented separately.

Git is currently the most popular code version control tool. In layman's terms, Git is like a "repository" or "depot" for code, allowing many people to know who modified which part after modifying the code. However, no matter what tool it is, be it an editor, programming language, or version control tool, these are secondary to a programmer's core ideas and serve only to support. However, Git seems to particularly annoy people.

Git is not as user-friendly as many people boast, and it has obvious design flaws. Following the Unix tradition, Git does not have a good wrapper, and its designers have brutally exposed their internal implementation details to users, forcing users to figure out how the designers have implemented it, otherwise they may not know what to do. Users are forced to remember quite a few strange commands, and the command line design is not very reasonable. Sometimes you need to add -f and other parameters, but their positions may not be consistent, and adding them may not even produce the desired effect. Various strange phenomena, such as "head detached," force users to understand how it is designed internally. With each Git update, new features and commands keep increasing, and eventually, you see the command line appearing with "foreach," discovering that its command line is starting to resemble (a low-quality) programming language. If you are familiar with the design philosophy of ydiff, you will find that Git-type version control tools based on text are actually relics of the past. However, many people revere Git as sacred because it was designed by Linus Torvalds.

The most annoying thing about Git is not that it is cumbersome to use, but that the "senior users" give you a psychological shadow with their condescending attitude. Some people, because they "master Git," consider themselves superior and adopt a know-it-all attitude. As more users join, Git's initial design becomes increasingly inadequate, leading to more and more established conventions, enough to write a book! Following the Unix tradition, Git gives you many ways to trap yourself, and when problems arise, it's your fault for not knowing. So you often hear people saying, "You're not supposed to do it that way, you can do it that way!" "Don't push to master!" "Don't merge!" "Squash commits!" If you don't know how to use git submodule and other things, you may be looked down upon, and people may say, "You should know this!" I'll give an example. The feeling given off by someone shouting like this is that after you won an Olympic gold medal, you returned the training equipment to the equipment storage room, but the manager scolded you loudly: "Put this here! Put that there! Do you understand the rules or not?" Do you see the problem? A company that respects programmers should treat them like athletes, placing their code on a revered pedestal. All other tools should be treated like equipment storage rooms. We respect these equipment managers, but if athletes don't understand your rules for storing equipment, they should still show respect and understanding, speaking politely and not riding roughshod over them. So, for some Git commands and usage, I suggest introducing them to newcomers like this: "You shouldn't really know about these things, but since we don't have better tools, we have to make do with this...."