---
layout: post
title: "DSL (Domain Specific Language) Misconceptions"
---


DSL often becomes a topic of discussion, so I wanted to dedicate today's post to it.

DSL stands for Domain Specific Language, which refers to languages designed for specific domains. For instance, Linux systems have numerous configuration files with different formats, which can be considered various DSLs. IPTables rules, FVWM configuration files, VIM and Emacs config files, Makefiles, CSS, JSON, and SQL can also be regarded as DSLs. People create DSLs in their work to solve practical problems.

Personally, I have never designed a DSL, but I have used those created by others, and I have strong feelings about them. I believe there are several misconceptions about DSLs, so today I want to share my perspective and personal experiences.

### DSL vs Library Code (Library)

Although DSLs and libraries serve different purposes, there is often confusion between the two. Libraries are collections of pre-written code that can be reused in various applications, while DSLs are languages designed for specific domains. Libraries provide solutions to common programming problems, whereas DSLs offer a way to express domain-specific concepts and rules more effectively. While libraries can be used in multiple domains, DSLs are tailored to a particular domain. The main difference lies in their expressiveness and flexibility, with DSLs allowing users to define their own rules and structures within the domain, whereas libraries offer pre-defined solutions. I'll share my views on DSLs (Domain Specific Languages). I believe that most DSLs should not exist, and we should strive to avoid creating them as much as possible. This argument applies not only to DSLs used in products with a small user base, but also to those used by a large community, like SQL.

The name DSL itself is misleading. It makes people think that different "domains" (fields) require different languages, but that's not the case. It's just creating domain barriers and providing an excuse for unnecessary DSLs. The vast majority of so-called different "domains" have the same basic language requirements. People often think they need a new DSL because they haven't distinguished between "library code" (library) and a "new language."

Different domains require, for the most part, only code specific to that domain written as "library code," not a completely different "new language." Analyze most so-called DSLs, and you'll find they've just extracted parts of common programming languages, such as structure definitions, arithmetic expressions, logical expressions, condition statements, etc. Rare is the DSL that cannot be represented using a general-purpose language. In most cases, you can write library code using a common language that satisfies the domain requirements, and domain users can then call library functions to complete their tasks.

The existence of most DSLs is due to their creators not understanding the essence of the problem and not recognizing that the problem doesn't need to be solved by designing a new language. Many people design DSLs because they see similar products with DSLs and copy them. Or because they've heard that DSLs are cool and designing one makes them look smart and valuable. Designing a DSL can also create dependency from colleagues and the company on oneself. Since people use my DSL, the company needs me, and I can't be replaced, ensuring job security ;)

However, if you carefully analyze the problems at hand, you'll find that most of them can be solved using library code and existing languages. Even if similar products have implemented DSLs, you'll find that they can be replaced with library code. In my work, I generally consider writing library code to solve problems first, and only if that fails do I consider creating a DSL. I'd like to discuss the issue of blindly creating DSLs (Domain Specific Languages). Many people don't understand the difference between DSLs and library code. They get a problem and instead of clarifying it, they start designing a DSL without a clear understanding, only to discover later that the DSL brought about serious issues. A DSL is not just a new function written in an existing language, it is a new language in itself, so it needs to go through a learning and understanding process before it can be used by others.

For example, if you see foo(x, y + z) in library code, it is clear that this is a function call. You know that it will first calculate y+z, get the result, and then pass it as a parameter to the foo function. Notice that you don't need to learn a new language for this. Although you don't know the definition of the foo function, you are clear on what a function call does: it takes the arguments, calculates them, and returns a result. In other words, you have a mental model for function calls.

However, a DSL is quite different. For a new DSL construction, you might not have any mental model in place. For instance, seeing foo(x, y + z), its meaning might not even be a function call. Maybe foo represents a foreach loop statement in this DSL, so foo(x, y + z) is similar to Java's foreach (x : y + z), where y and z are lists, and the + sign represents connecting two lists.: In order to understand the meaning of foo(x, y + z), you cannot directly rely on existing mental models of functions, and must instead read the documentation provided by the DSL designer, and learn anew. If the DSL designer is a proficient language expert, that might be alright. However, I have found that most DSL designers lack professional training. Therefore, the languages they design come with various headache-inducing problems from the start.

Some DSLs have weak expressiveness, resulting in users being unable to convey their intended meaning, forcing them to consult the language's designer whenever they need to write code. Often, new features must be added to the DSL to solve the user's problem. Eventually, you find that someone designed a DSL that only they could use. When someone needs to use a language, they have to bother its author, so what is the point of the language's existence?

Of course, many DSLs also commit common mistakes in programming language design. Some people think designing a language is too easy and like to show off new tricks, resulting in various complications. Errors are easy to make, ambiguities arise, syntax is ugly and cumbersome, difficult to learn and use, lack editor/IDE support, error messages are hard to understand, cannot be debugged with a debugger, and so on. In the end, you find that it's better not to design a new language, and instead use an existing language to solve problems.

Some people idolize Haskell or Scala, claiming that these languages have extremely powerful "DSL implementation capabilities," meaning you can use them to implement your desired DSL. This is a misunderstanding. Although I've made it clear that creating DSLs is not a good thing, I believe it's important to clarify this point further. If you share my perspective on various languages, you'll find that the most powerful DSL implementation language in the world is not Haskell or Scala, but Scheme.: In the year 2012, I attended the POPL conference (Principles of Programming Languages), which is a top-tier event in the programming language community. Although the name contains the word "principle" (meaning "principles" or "fundamentals"), it is no longer as focused on fundamental principles as its name suggests. At that time, Scala was very popular, so papers about Scala were ubiquitous at the conference. The Scala "gang" was very proud. Of course, there were also various JavaScript things that were very popular.

Many Scala people spoke about themes that emphasized its DSL (Domain Specific Language) capabilities. After listening to several such reports, I found that Scala's DSL mechanism is similar to Haskell's, they just implemented something like C++'s "operator overloading," using special operators to express operations on certain special objects, and then calling these operators "DSL."

If you're not clear on Haskell's trick, I'll remind you. Haskell's so-called type classes are actually the same as Java or C++'s function overloading at their core. The overloading problem is complicated and obscured in Haskell due to its adoption of the Hindley-Milner type system. Once you understand it, you'll find that Haskell's way of implementing DSLs is just through type class overloading of some special operators. This is not fundamentally different from C++'s operator+(...).

The DSL defined by operator overloading is quite limited. In fact, a language that is defined as a "language" must have its own unique semantics, not just new functions. Operator overloading fundamentally only defines new functions and does not extend the language's capabilities. Just like you overloaded the + operator in C++, you are still using C++, not expanding C++'s semantics.

I have used Haskell to implement a "DSL" for GPU computing called Accelerate. This "language" is quite clunky to use. It requires users to write certain symbols at specific places in the code for operator overloading to take effect. However, once you write these mysterious symbols, you find that the code's readability is poor. But due to the limitations of operator overloading, you must do this. You must remember when to write these symbols and when not to. This requirement is a heavy burden on a programmer's mind, no one wants to remember these meaningless things.: Due to the limitations of operator overloading, the DSLs implemented in Haskell and Scala, despite being impressive with numerous papers published, are seldom used in practice.

The most powerful DSL implementation language in the world is not Scheme. Scheme's macro system (hygienic macro) surpasses the macro systems of early Lisp languages, as it was designed to change and extend Scheme's semantics. Scheme's macros essentially allow arbitrary manipulation of the "syntax tree," extending the compiler's functionality. This macro system can implement the "overloaded DSLs" of Haskell and Scala, as well as language features that cannot be implemented using overloading (such as statements that can bind variables).

miniKanren is a language implemented using Scheme macros, resembling a logical programming language similar to Prolog. If you try to implement miniKanren using Haskell or Scala, you will find it exceptionally difficult. Even if you manage to implement it, your DSL syntax will be hard to read and use, and it will not be as elegant as miniKanren.

I'm not here to promote Scheme or its macro system. In fact, after gaining a deep understanding of Scheme's macro system, I discovered serious problems with it. Insiders refer to this problem as "The New Language Problem."

Since it's so easy to implement a new language within Scheme with just a few lines of code, altering the language's semantics or designing new language constructs, this brings about a significant issue. Once you've changed the language's semantics or designed new language constructs, communication between people becomes more difficult. Those using your modified Scheme must learn a new language to understand your code and communicate with you. I cannot directly translate this text without punctuation and Chinese characters as the meaning of the sentences heavily relies on the context provided by the characters. However, I can provide an English translation of the main ideas:

Due to this reason, it is hard for you to understand another person's Scheme code because many Scheme programmers love macros and use them extensively. They design quirky macros that extend the language's capabilities, leading you to use an unfamiliar language to write their code. Originally, the language was meant to facilitate communication between people, but due to everyone being able to modify it, they end up speaking different dialects, making communication difficult.

I want to clarify that I am not endorsing or praising Scheme here. I genuinely believe that the macro system is a significant flaw in Scheme. My Scheme-loving professors will surely oppose this viewpoint and even look down upon me. However, I have held this opinion for many years and have not changed it.

The issue with Scheme macros led me to consider DSLs (Domain-Specific Languages). I later discovered that DSLs and Scheme macros share similar problems. This problem has a name: "The New Language Problem." I will explain this problem in detail below.

Now, I would like to share an interesting story related to DSLs from my personal experience.1. Excited about a new language, started using it for a new project
2. Complained about it after two months, expressed dissatisfaction

These two people at the company, who were fond of experimenting with PL but had not received formal PL education, were colloquially referred to as "PL amateurs." Despite this, they loved to show off their abilities and implement new languages, often to the chagrin of the real experts who could only watch in silence.

One of them, knowing I was researching PL, initially thought we were of the same kind and often approached me at the table to propose, "Let's design a common programming language together and use it to solve the problems our company is currently facing!" Each time he said this, I would quietly shake my head, "Does our company really need a new language? How much time do you have to design and implement this language?"

These two individuals in the company were always eager to try out various new languages, including Go, Scala, Rust, and so on. Whenever they received a new project, they would try to use a specific new language for it. Consequently, this cycle of events kept repeating itself before my eyes:

1. Enthusiastic about a new language, started using it for a new project
2. Criticized it after two months, expressed dissatisfaction.: 3. In the end, the last project was abandoned, all the code was thrown into the garbage heap.

4. Go to 1

These two guys were always busy with these matters every day, but the real output they left behind was very little. Previously, they had designed a DSL specifically for matching and transforming HTML. This DSL was named something very scientific-sounding by them, called NaCl (Chloride Sodium, the chemical formula for table salt).

When I joined the company, NaCl had been around for quite some time, but few people really understood how to use it, and most people had an attitude of "don't touch it if you don't have to." One day, I encountered a situation where I needed to modify NaCl code. It was just one line, but after looking at the "official documentation" of NaCl for a long time, I still didn't know how to use the syntax it provided to make the necessary changes. In fact, what I needed was a simple matching and replacement, which could be easily done with regular expressions, but the existing code was written in NaCl, and there were several layers of frameworks on top, making it impossible to bypass.

I asked quite a few people, including the top "NaCl experts" in the company, but I didn't get any results. In the end, I had to go bother the "NaCl father" who was known as a day and night genius. After explaining and teaching me for a while, he suddenly helped me modify the code and finished it! In fact, I didn't understand a single word he said, why it was done that way, or the principles behind it. All I knew was that my goal was achieved, and I went back to do my own work. I spoke with other colleagues later and found that my intuition was correct. They told me that everything that can be expressed in the company's NaCl code can be easily solved using regular expressions or even simple string replacements without regexp. My colleagues were puzzled as to why a DSL was necessary for such a simple task when Java's String.replace could do the job.

Later, a "NaCl expert" told me that although he was familiar with NaCl, he didn't like it. When these two people proposed creating NaCl, he had already expressed strong opposition. He explained to everyone what was meant by "new language problems" and warned them of the troubles that come with new languages. However, the leader apparently had some political alliance with these two people, so he didn't listen to him.

Under the leader's permissive and supportive attitude, these two people went ahead and created NaCl, and then forced its implementation throughout the company. Later, whenever I needed to use NaCl for something, I found myself having to ask for their help to add new features. So I can use NaCl today to express most of what I want, thanks to the "NaCl expert" who planted the seeds of solutions to many pitfalls beforehand.

I have a saying: if a language requires users to bother its designers every time they want to express anything, or even need to add new features to the language itself, that language should not exist. NaCl, this DSL, fits my statement perfectly.

Of course, NaCl is just an example. I know that many other DSLs have similar stories behind them. A few months later, these two scientists started creating another DSL called Dex, and history repeated itself... Dynamic Logic Loading

Dex's story is different from NaCl's, but the final result is similar. NaCl is a language that shouldn't exist, while Dex's case is slightly different. We do need some sort of "embedded language," but it shouldn't be like Dex, not a DSL. Since Dex addresses certain requirements that are common, many people create DSLs blindly when encountering such requirements, making it a big pitfall! I want to tell this story in detail so that fewer people fall into it.

The original requirement was as follows: The product required a configuration method, and the configuration file could contain certain "logic." By dynamically loading the configuration file without changing the code, it could change the system's logic and behavior. This thing is somewhat like "firewall" rules, such as:

1. If the size is greater than 1000, not allowed, otherwise allowed.

2. If the title contains the word "pig head," not allowed, otherwise allowed... These rules are essentially some logical expressions "size > 1000" along with some branching statements "if ... then ...". Before Dex, people defined such rules using XML, but later found that XML was not easy to understand, as shown below:

<rule>

 <condition>

  <operator op="GT">size</operator>

  <value>1000</value>

 </condition>

 <if>

  <!-- some conditions and actions here -->

 </if>

</rule> great than
<first> size </first>
<second> [

The Chinese text "gt" is an abbreviation for "greater than" in mathematical symbols. In English, it can be translated as "greater than" or ">" symbol. The context provided in the text suggests that "gt" is an operator, and it is followed by the size in square brackets, indicating a comparison between two values where the first value is greater than the second. Therefore, the English translation of the given Chinese text would be:

greater than
<first> size </first>
<second> [

or simply:

size > [ 1000
</second>

</condition>

<action>
block
</action>

The Chinese text provided does not contain any characters or words that need to be translated. The number "1000" is already in English. Therefore, there is no translation to provide. The rest of the text is in XML format and is not Chinese. I understand now? This XML, which makes people's eyes pop out, is just expressing the if (size > 1000) block() in ordinary language. To understand this, imagine the data structure represented by this XML as the abstract syntax tree (AST) in the compiler. So writing this XML is like writing an abstract syntax tree by hand, which is quite painful.

Why don't we just put if (size > 1000) block() as a Java statement directly into the system's code instead? Because Java code is compiled and put into the system, which cannot be changed once it's in. However, we need to be able to change this logic dynamically without updating the system code. Therefore, you cannot "write it in stone" into the system code, but must treat it as a "configuration".

Once you understand this, you naturally find a solution: write if (x > 1000) block() Java code segments into a "configuration file", and then use JVM to read, combine, and compile this file, dynamically load the generated class, and the system's behavior can be changed. In fact, this is also what another team in the company did, allowing users to edit a Java-based "rule file" and load it. I think this is a viable solution. To achieve dynamic logic loading, you can use established languages like Java or JavaScript with existing compilers instead of designing a new language. However, when PL scientists encountered this problem, their first thought was to design a new DSL, which led to the birth of Dex.

Dex aims to express things that are essentially logical expressions and condition statements, but it was designed as a completely independent language. Its syntax is quite different from other languages, combining elements of Haskell, Go, Python, etc. Later, a team member who had studied Prolog logic programming language joined, so he tried to add "logic programming" elements into it. Their goal was to make this DSL "reliable," "verifiable," and a "descriptive language"....

They announced this ambitious plan to the team, and an interesting side story occurred. When they heard about creating another DSL, the "NaCl expert" once again expressed strong opposition to this plan. This time, he took action himself, using a Java embedded JavaScript interpreter to create a dynamic configuration system based on JavaScript, which could be used in just a week.

I think using JavaScript is also a solution, as browser PAC files define proxy rules using JavaScript, and these proxy rules are similar to our applications. Although I don't particularly like JavaScript, some of its simple constructs are useful in this scenario.

To be honest, I couldn't take it anymore before this, so I quietly made a similar configuration system myself using an existing JavaScript parser, extracted relevant JavaScript constructs, and created an interpreter to embed it into the system, which only took a day. However, I was clear in my mind that all technical efforts are insignificant in the face of political struggles. I had already given up, but secretly, I still supported the "NaCl expert" in his resistance from the sidelines. Conclusions:

The quarrel's final outcome was due to the leader's favoritism, vetoing "outsiders'" methods, allowing two scientists and one Prolog fanatic to continue developing Dex. Several months later, the company's second quirky DSL was born. It expressed condition statements and logical expressions in a confusing, hard-to-read manner. They wrote a parser, an interpreter, and documentation, and began forcing its use within the company. "Reliable," "verifiable," "descriptive" goals were long forgotten. Users were struggling to express things or didn't know how, with insufficient error feedback, meaning they had to constantly consult the "Dex's father."

Ah, history repeats itself...

### Conclusion

So, what is my conclusion regarding DSLs?

1. Avoid creating DSLs as much as possible because they bring about significant understanding, communication, and learning curve issues, potentially severely lowering team productivity. If this DSL is for users, it will significantly impact user experience and reduce product accessibility. 2. In most cases when writing library code, it's sufficient to make required functions into functions to solve problems.

3. If it's really necessary to create a DSL (Domain Specific Language) instead, and non-DSL cannot solve the problem, then design DSL. However, a DSL must be designed by language experts, otherwise it may still bring serious consequences to the product and team.

4. Most DSL problems can be solved with "dynamic logic loading." You can completely use existing languages (such as JavaScript) or take part of them and achieve this goal through dynamic calls to their interpreters (compilers), without creating a new DSL.

(This article suggests a retail price of ￥30, if it saves your team or company from falling into pitfalls, please pay ￥1000000 :）