---
layout: post
title: "Words"
---

I've noticed that anyone who has used words like "complain," "vent," "low," and so on in our conversations, gets automatically isolated in my mind. It doesn't matter if they used it about me, about others, or about themselves. They get labeled as "another type of person" by me.

Merchants or apps that use such words are also demoted to a "low" category by me. For instance, some merchants provide these options in their evaluation menus: "1. Give a good review. 2. I want to complain. 3. Cruelly reject...." I can only roll my eyes at such merchants.

I don't know how I came to this, it's not a decision my intellect made, but a natural reaction. However, I'd like to analyze why my subconscious dislikes such "internet slang."

First, my feeling towards a word largely comes from its literal or sound meaning. My subconscious doesn't ponder over the origin of the word, whether it's a translation or not, it only knows if it's "pleasing to the ear" or "displeasing." The two characters in "complain" are not pleasant to the ear or meaning, no matter how they are pronounced or defined. The sound of "complain" is unpleasant. The meaning of "vent" is not clear, but the sound is not appealing. "Low" is also not a pleasant sound.

My subconscious associates these words with negative feelings, and I find it hard to change that first impression. "Spray" is similar, it gives a disgusting and unhygienic feeling, and carries strong emotional connotations.

What about "low" then? Some people say: "He's so low." Although he is calling others "low class," he himself is put in the low class category. You see, I used the word "low class," isn't that different from "low" in meaning? Although their meanings are similar, the attitude of the speaker is very different. If he says "low class," "vulgar," it's fine. But if he says "He's so low," there's a problem. He automatically lowered his own status.

The problem with "low" is that this person, as a Chinese, has a well-known Chinese term for "low class," yet he deliberately chooses to use the English word "low." This indicates that there is some issue in this person's mind, perhaps it's low self-esteem, arrogance, or a desire to be Western, or showing off that they can speak English? In any case, he's not being true to himself. He needs to put on airs with English to intimidate others, doesn't that suggest his actual position is low? Low isn't the problem, low is the problem.

When I mention "position" or "status," it may raise some objections, am I stirring up social hierarchy and discrimination? No, I'm not. In my mind, a person's "position" doesn't refer to their job, clothing, or wealth, but rather their level of civilization. This is similar to Emily Post's "Etiquette" book definition of "best society" (high society, or upper class). A person's membership in high society isn't determined by their wealth, title, but by their manners and breeding. A more precise description would be level of civilization.

The above-mentioned language is all recent slang, part of "internet language." Why is there an abundance of new slang in Chinese society? I believe the reason lies in the fact that many Chinese people have a "people are the same" mentality, combined with many people being addicted to the internet and bombarded by various information. A rich man or star says something, they follow suit. Friends in their social circle repeat it, regardless of whether it's offensive or not, they follow. On sites like Zhihu, BBS, etc., the influence is profound. This is why certain words that have never been seen before become popular on the network, such as "giving," "drunken," "incomprehensible," "complaining," "spraying," "low"... I. People who frequently use such terminology are generally referred to as "netizens," who spend most of their time in the virtual world, engaging in discussions on various forums, Zhihu, MITBBS, and so on. They communicate so much online but struggle to find people to talk to in the real world, leading them to become addicted to the illusory world. These people may appear humorous and loquacious online, but in real life, they exhibit severe signs of social withdrawal. They often lack social boundaries, have a poor understanding of etiquette, and their behavior can be crass, rude, insensitive, and always concerned with "events on the internet."

II. This may be the unconscious reason for my aversion to people who use such internet jargon. The rampant internet slang in today's China is cultural trash, an insult to the Chinese literary and cultural heritage. It has infiltrated advertisements, television, and books, becoming a repetitive and nauseating catchphrase. We should start with ourselves and avoid using such internet jargon.

III. Regarding "complaining," "venting," and similar terms, there is also a misunderstanding of the "comparison psychology" issue. When I point out issues with certain things and speak the truth, some people develop a "comparison psychology," labeling me as "complaining," "venting," or complaining. Some even start lecturing me, saying, "Those who cannot change it should accept it...." These people may be used to complaining themselves or have spent too much time on MITBBS or similar platforms, witnessing or engaging in excessive criticism. They fail to recognize that there is a different attitude called "mocking." When they encounter someone mocking a situation, they assume the person is complaining like they often are.

Complaining is for the weak, a sign of helplessness and a lack of the ability to change things. Mocking, on the other hand, is a sign of strength, a position independent of the situation, and even the ability to change reality.

Most of the time, when I encounter irrational things, I enjoy mocking them. For example, I often mock poorly designed software languages that claim to have high community quality. I laugh at Tesla or Google's self-aggrandizement, misleading the masses. I may take a photo and mock a local government's shoddy municipal facilities, which significantly affect the cityscape and are often wasteful. I care about these things? What influence do they have on me? None. I don't use Tesla's products, I don't live in that city. I don't have strong emotions towards these irrational things. I'm just suggesting some better ways from a designer and creator's perspective, which may help some people improve their understanding. Of course, those people on Zhihu and MITBBS who are used to complaining seriously will think this is a complaint.

As for programming languages, it's even more so. Some people say I'm "venting about Python again," but they have no idea of the difference between complaining and joking. I often joke about Python, Ruby, JS and so on, not complain. If a normal programmer feels painful when using Python but can't change it, he may really be complaining. But for me, the designers of these languages are just hobbyists who think they're gods. I can only mock or joke at them, not complain. You understand, right?

So sometimes I jokingly mock these companies and designers while using the power of information to indirectly help those who live in these places and are influenced by them every day. I'm independent of these things and not affected by them, and I have the power to change them. Using my insight and influence, I spread correct information to many people's minds, making them recognize better designs and ways of doing things, gradually leading to social change, which is the power of knowledge.