---
layout: post
title: "cs4"
---

Computer Science Fundamentals Class (4th Period) Registration

The Computer Science Fundamentals Class of the third period has ended smoothly after two months of teaching. Registration for the fourth period of the fundamentals class is now open. The registration process is the same as for the third period.

Since the course is quite intensive for some students, we usually provide guidance for the incomplete exercises of the students for about two weeks after the course ends, excluding the Labor Day holiday. The fourth period course is expected to start about two weeks later.

The third period class had several students with no prior knowledge of computer science, coming from various backgrounds. The third period students included a composer by profession, a full-time mother, a self-taught learner, university students, graduates who have entered the workforce, or entrepreneurs.

I have two excellent teaching assistants who have put in a lot of effort for this course. I am often surprised to find dozens or even hundreds of patient guidance messages from students with no prior knowledge in their late-night study group when I check in the morning. I am very touched by the dedication and patience of the teaching assistants. However, I still encourage everyone to sleep on time :) I have learned a lot during the past two months of this course. I have once again deeply felt the difficulties of being a beginner in a field. I found that each domain should have a smooth and effective learning method, but there are always misguides. Because the learning methods from different teachers are different, what one person achieves after decades of effort might not be as good as another person's achievements in a few months. Since the paths are different, the results are also different.

I increasingly believe in the importance of a correct learning method and effective practice. The field of human cognition and learning ability is very intriguing. Instead of researching so-called "artificial intelligence," I truly believe it's worthwhile to research how humans can learn knowledge more effectively. I often experiment with my own mind and body using different methods to test and compare their reactions, trying to find the most effective way. I don't believe in the one-way approach, as people often spend too much time learning without mastering it.

Through personally participating in several learning programs in various fields, I have felt what it means to pay a lot of tuition fees and end up with nothing. In today's society, investing a lot of money and time might not lead to learning anything. I truly believe I am doing something beneficial for society. Only when most people gain genuine knowledge can society develop in a good direction.

The computer science fundamentals class will not cover all the knowledge in computer science, but it is a core knowledge and method set that should help people find and understand more computer science knowledge. This method definitely needs improvement and refinement, which I will continue to make.

The computer science reading experiment class has reached its 6th lesson, with positive feedback. I am starting to write the most important content for the 7th chapter (interpreter). The reading class is currently full, so I cannot accept new students at the moment. Once all the content is completed, I will start accepting new applications. due to writing documents being more complex than direct teaching, and being related to one's mood, not all the time can good content be produced, so it took longer. In the near future, I will organize the content documents for lesson 1 and make them public here. I hope it will be helpful to the public, and also provide preview content for students preparing to enter the basic class.