---
layout: post
title: "Super-Human-Level Vision"
---

"Super-human level machine vision" does not exist. I want to clarify this once again for the general public regarding the "historical breakthrough" in the field of Artificial Intelligence (AI) called "super-human level machine vision." I explained this in a previous article, but the information may have been buried in a rather lengthy text, leaving many people in the dark. For this crucial issue, simplicity and clarity are essential. So, I decided to clarify it in a very short article.

In essence, in the AI field, so-called "machine vision" refers to the ability of a machine to answer the question "What is in the picture?" For instance, if the picture is of a car, saying "car" would be correct. The "Top-5" standard refers to giving five chances to name five things for each picture, and as long as one of them is correct, it is considered correct. For example, if the picture is of a car, saying "cat, guitar, fan, car, orange" would also be considered correct. Have you noticed the problem yet? Let's continue...

By using a large number of images for this test and calculating the "recognition rate," many machine vision experts do this. One person conducted a "human-machine comparison" experiment and found that the machine's recognition rate exceeded that of humans, resulting in "super-human level vision." "Super-human level vision" is considered a historical breakthrough in AI, which is the reason for the recent surge in interest in AI.

However, many people failed to notice that the "Top-5" standard is not scientific or reasonable. If it's something a person has seen before, they only need one chance to get it right, clearly and without hesitation, while the other four chances are unnecessary. Machines often get it wrong the first time and need four more chances to bluff their way through. People precisely know what this thing is, while machines are just guessing "it might be A, or it might be B, C, D, or E," a total of five possibilities. So, for the same picture, although people and machines both count as "correct" based on the "Top-5" standard, their accuracy levels are actually quite different. It's like designing an exam with only one correct answer for each question but giving five chances to get it right. In this case, it becomes impossible to distinguish the top performers from the bottom performers, and sometimes the bottom performers even outperform the top performers because they are unsure of the answer and can guess randomly. I believe most people would understand the issues here, yet the "Top-5" standard is the supposed origin of "superhuman vision" in the AI field. Even using such an unfair standard, the machine's recognition rate doesn't exceed human performance by much and can be largely ignored as "noise." The person who participated in the test was the only one, not an independent experimenter brought in from elsewhere, but a student involved in the project. This person's name was Andrej Karpathy, who later became Tesla's AI Director. Given such a biased approach, they claimed "machines have surpassed.... humans."

You might think "Top-5" is not scientific, not reasonable, and may not cause much harm. Be careful, it can be fatal, and it's threatening many lives. In our living environment, we rarely have more than 5 chances to identify something, and in reality, we often only have one chance, with no room for ambiguity. For instance, misidentifying a "truck" as a "whiteboard" on the road can be fatal. However, such misidentification errors have been the cause of multiple fatal Tesla Autopilot crashes. For more details, please refer to my 2016 article.

There are other issues with this test as well. For example, all the test images were clear and well-lit, lacking the complexity of natural environments, such as darkness, night scenes, obstacles, shadows, reflections, mirrors, refractions, and blur. Moreover, recognizing an object's name does not mean knowing its 3D shape and boundaries, or the ability to pick it up, operate it, or avoid it, or the reliance on this technology for "autonomous driving."